[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: If we can
destructure a single level of arrays,
we can obviously
destructure nested arrays.
So I could, it might be the case, that I
would have in this position an array that
had [4, 5, 6] in a nested array.
Okay, I'll spread that out so
it's a little easier to read.
Okay, so now at the fourth position,
we actually have an array with four,
five, six, and.
What is args gonna have
in this particular case?
Tell me what the structure
of args would be.
>> Speaker 2: The array four, five, six
>> Kyle Simpson: No.
>> Speaker 2: An array where the first
item is array 4,5,6-
>> Kyle Simpson: Exactly.
args would be an array
with one item in it.
The item in that one position in args
would be the array 4, 5, 6, okay?
Do you follow that?
All right, but what if I didn't want that?
What if I didn't want that
thing as one big array?
What if I wanted 4, 5, and
6 individually addressable?
Well, I can do array destructuring,
right inside of my pattern.
A nested array destructuring that says,
make d the first one,
I don't care about the second one,
and make e the third one, for example.
As long as I had those as
locations that I could assign to.
So now d is going to be the value 4 and
e's going to be the value 6.
Array destructuring uses position,
just like regular arrays use position.
When we talk about object destructuring,
you'll see those use property
names to be the mapping.
But here there's an implicit mapping
from zero to a, and from 1 to b.
Because we're using the position,
instead of the property name.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
now you can start to see, you can start
to visualize that if I had a really
complex structure coming back from an API.
I could have a nice little nested list of
all the stuff that I cared about nesting
down in array, inside of an object,
inside of an array, inside or whatever.
And then I'd have my two or
three little variables that I cared about
like first name and e-mail address and
those the only ones I care about and
the pattern becomes a self documentation.
How many of you have ever done before,
have some kind of API
that you're consuming?
And what you do is take a capture
of that API structure and
put it into your JS.comment.
Because you need to document what the hell
you're expecting to come back from
this function call right now your
pattern becomes your self document.
You document what you're expecting by
doing the destructuring pattern according
to what you're expecting to get back.
No need to duplicate it in js.comment,
it's just right there in the structure,
okay?
That's what I meant when I said earlier
that the destructuring becomes a thing
that pays off bigger than just itself.
Because now it starts to teach you
something about the bigger aspect
of what's going in coding.
The time spent for you to learn how this
works, pays off far beyond just that one
line of code.
>> Kyle Simpson: Question
about array and object?
Yep, we're going to get to mixing
them in just a little bit.
>> Speaker 3: A moment ago on line eleven
you had ...args.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep.
>> Speaker 3: And I don't think I ever got
how that would come back as
a single element within an array.
Can you turn through that one again?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep,
let's go through this one more time.
...args is at the top level of
our array destructuring pattern.
Which is saying,
any items that are left in my array
should all be collected up
into an array called arg.
What is the only item
that's left in our array?
It's an array value.
So there's going to be a single array
holding that one value at position zero.
Does that help?
>> Speaker 4: Oscar
has a question about why do you need
all those vars at line five?
>> Kyle Simpson: Only because I'm not
putting the var right here.
Remember I switched from
doing declaration syntax
to doing general assignments syntax.
So if I go back to the declaration syntax,
it's a little easier for us,
okay.
>> Speaker 5: Not that I would encourage
doing it but does it work if you don't
have a var and you treat that as global's?
Or will it not allow global assignments?
>> Kyle Simpson: Now it will allow global
assignments, if you don't have a var
there it will allow a global assignment.
But then you have the question of,
if you're in strict mode,
which you should be in strict mode,
then you're going to get an error.
Cuz that's not allowed in strict mode.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay so,
>> Kyle Simpson: We can either account for
one of the values here,
or we can destructure it.
Or we can collect it with a ...args,
but we can't do both.
That will be different
when we get to objects,
it will be possible to double account for
something with objects.
And we'll get to that in a moment.
But with the rains this
position is either ...args.
Or it's a variable called d, or
it's a destructuring pattern
that's broken down further.
You gotta pick one of those three, okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: All right.
Another thing before we move on to
talking about objects is this idea that,
I'm not sure I have the best
way to illustrate this.
>> Kyle Simpson: What's happening here
if we went back to that simple case, is we
do have a declaration that's occurring.
But we also have- and actually,
this is going to be a lot
simpler if I do it this way.
So I'm going to go back to that case
where I'm just doing destructuring and
sign it without declaration.
Just keep it simpler.
What happening here is that there's
an assignment expression happening and
the end result of the assignment
expression is itself of value.
We already saw that earlier in one of
our exercises where I assigned an arrow
function to a very variable in the arrow
function came back from the assignment.
So here we have, what do you think,
Would be the value of x?
>> Kyle Simpson: First off,
do you think this is valid syntax, yes or
no?
>> Kyle Simpson: And by that,
I mean,
convince yourself that it is valid syntax.
Why is it valid syntax?
>> Kyle Simpson: Why is this, for example,
not an array?
>> Speaker 6: Cuz
it's still an assignment target.
>> Kyle Simpson: Cuz it's still on
the left hand side of that assignment.
So it's still in an assignment context.
Now this assignment happens and
some value comes back.
Many people think that x will
be the array of 1 and 2.
Cuz they're thinking to themselves,
what comes back from that assignment is
only what I captured in my destructuring.
But that is the wrong thinking,
because that is thinking that bracket a,
b is an array.
Bracket a, b isn't an array, is it?
It's a pattern for
how to break down an array.
So what do you think actually comes
back from a destructuring assignment?
The whole array, right?
So x is actually gonna be the whole
thing 1, 2, 3 with an array in 4,5,6.
That's what comes back
from the assignment, okay?
The destructuring assignment
is not creating a new sub
array of just two items, it's breaking
down the array according to a pattern.
That's a subtle but
really important processing signal.
>> Speaker 6: So in the same thing,
you could switch s with
ab destructuring and
then you'd still get the same results,
right?
Cuz x would be the entirety of foo?
>> Kyle Simpson: If you did
that,
>> Kyle Simpson: Now you're declarator
with applied var a and b.
And this line would be redundant.
But x wouldn't exist, so
you would need to declare x.
>> Speaker 6: [INAUDIBLE] But otherwise,
same result, correct?
>> Kyle Simpson: Same result, okay?
But I want to go back to the case where
we don't have the declarator involved.
I want to go back to this particular case.
Because I just said,
and that's what prompted me to go
off on this little rabbit trail.
I just said, well, you can either account
for a position using a lexical name or
using a ...gather or
using a nested destructure.
But you can do multiples.
Actually you kind of can,
because you can chain multiple
destructuring patterns together,
since every destructuring assignment
returns the original full array.
So I could say something like a,
b, ...args,
which is going to collect three and
the array 4, 5, 6 in.
And I could also have
another destructuring.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm going to start
breaking these on multiple lines for
readability.
Okay, I could also another destructuring,
which doesn't care about any of those
first ones, but starts breaking down 4,
5, 6.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
let me try to use some whitespace here to
help make this a little bit more readable.
>> Kyle Simpson: So let's go from
the bottom to the top.
First the foo function
returns us an array.
We destructure, assign a to the value 1,
b to the value 2.
And collect in the args the value 3 and
the value 4, 5, 6.
You with me?
Then we say the whole array
again is returned, and
then we do another destructuring,
which throws away the first three.
And then it goes into that 4, 5, 6 and
it says c should be the value 4 and
d should be the value 5.
So it is possible to chain multiple
destructuring patterns together to
accomplish that trick of doing
accounting for the array in multiple
ways.
>> Kyle Simpson: Any
questions about array destructuring?
>> Speaker 7: When you do multiple
levels like this do you have to have the,
I'm assuming you need like var a,
b outside of the-
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah,
we would have had to do all of that.
The var is only gonna apply
to the left most pattern.
So, we could of done var here, and
then had a var av.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
args, or we could have done all of them.
It's probably what I would have done,
and had no declaratory attached.
>> Speaker 7: So requests for
more concrete function in var names.
I know why you do this,
but I thought maybe you'd want to-
>> Kyle Simpson: I understand
the request for more concrete names.
I don't really want to get
into the full reason why, but
I just want to tell you it's not
because I'm uncreative or lazy.
There's a reason why I teach
with the foo and the var.
And there's a reason why I try to make
your exercises not necessarily use too
much of the foo in the var.
So, we're doing both.
I'm teaching the concepts
with the simple stuff,
and then we try to apply
it with less weird stuff.
That's not always the case, a few of
the exercises have to use those but.
What about args?
>> Speaker 7: Do you still think of using
that here?
Because to me it's like args
might be used in a function.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, maybe
there's better name for that.
>> Speaker 7: And just,
could you call it some letter?
>> Speaker 7: Whatever.
>> Kyle Simpson: Or vowels.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, I was just
stuck in the mindset for the-
>> Speaker 7: Now I'm happier.
[LAUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: You're right.
>> Kyle Simpson: In particular,
when we get to the end of this
discussion of the destructuring,
which we still got a little ways to go.
But when we get to the end
of the destructuring,
the exercise that you do on destructuring
is a more concrete example.
It's not foo var example, okay?